## 1. Three qualities

- **Correctness**,  or whether our code works correctly, as intended.
- **Design**, or a subjective measure of how well-written our code is, based on how efficient it is and how elegant or logically readable it is, without unnecessary repetition.
- **Style**, or how aesthetically formatted our code is, in terms of consistent indentation and other placement of symbols. Differences in style don't affect the correctness or meaning of our code, but affect how readable it is visually.

## 2. Compiling

### 2.1. Source code v.s. Machine code

We'll **compile** our code before we can run it. Computer can only understand **binary**, which is also used to represent **instructions** like print something to the screen.

Our **source code** has been written in characters we can read,(i.e., `hello.c`) but it need to be compiled: convert to **machine code**, patterns of zeros and ones that our computer can directly understand.

E.g., `hello.c` of source code:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    printf("hello, world");
}
```

### 2.2. Compiler

But how can we convert **source code** to **machine code**, there we need is a program called **compiler**, which will take source code as input and produce machine code as output.

For example, in CS50 IDE, the compiler program name is called **make**, when we type  `make hello` in the terminal of CS50 IDE, it'll automatically find our `hello.c` file as source code of input, and then convert it to machine code which is actually a executable program called `hello`, and it's the parameter we input.

There will be some output to tell you whether your compiling is successful, if there's no error messages in yellow or red, it's compiled successful.

## 3. Functions and arguments

That's the same ideas we've explored in `0x00 Scratch`.

We've known that a function is an instance of algorithms, which has an input and an output, where output is produced by its algorithm.

We can imagine the functions as small actions or verbs that we can use in our program to do something, which we called abstraction we'll detail it later.

### 3.1. Arguments

The input of functions we called **arguments**.

E.g., the function `printf`(with the `f` standing for "formatted" text), we pass the arguments with **parentheses**, as in `printf("Hello World!");`, the double quotes indicate that we want to print out the letters `hello world` literally, and the semicolon at the end indicates the end of our line of code.

### 3.2. Outputs

Functions can also have two kinds of outputs:

- **side effects**, such as something printed to screen, or play sound.
- **return value**, a value that is passed back to our program that we can use or store for later. (e.g., `add(num1, num2)` function, which will return the result of addition back to us.)

### 3.3. Library

How can we use the functions we've already written, or the functions the others written? We'll use a **library**, which is a set of code already written.

For example, the `cs50` library we already used includes some basic , simple functions that we can use right away.(E,g., `get_string`)

Before we can use the functions of library, we need to declare it, that is telling the compiler to include the Library we wanna used.

```c
#include <cs50.h>		// tell compiler to include cs50.h
#include <stdio.h>
```

### 3.4. Escape sequence

What is escape sequence is some text that represents some other text probably hard to type.

Like `\n` in  `printf("hello, world\n");`, which represent a newline character.



## 4. main, header file

### 4.1. main function

Main function is the **entrance** of the whole program, we'll learn more about it later, for now we'll simply use this to start our program.

```c
int main(void)
{
  // codes
}
```

### 4.2. Header files

**Header files** that end with `.h` refer to some other set of code, like  a library, that we can then use in our program.

We include them with lines like `#include <stdio.h>`, which `stdio.h` standing for the standard input/output library, which contains `printf` function.

## 5. Types, format codes



### 5.1. Types

There are many data **types** we can use for our variables, which indicate to the computer what type of data they represent.

- `bool`, a Boolean expression of either `true` or `false`
- `char`, a single `ASCII` character like `a` or `2`
- `double`, a floating-point value with more digits than a `float`
- `float`, a floating-point value, or a real-number with a decimal value
- `int`, integers up to a certain size, or number of bits
- `long`, integers with more bits, so they can count higher than an `int`
- `string`, a string of characters

### 5.2. Format codes

For `printf`, there are also different placeholders for each type:

- `%c` for chars
- `%f` for floats, doubles
- `%i`, for ints
- `%li`, for longs
- `%s`, for strings



## 6. Operators, limitations, truncation

### 6.1. Operators

There are several mathematical operators we can use too:

- `+` for addition

- `-` for subtracation

- `*` for multiplication

- `/` for division

- `%` for remainder

### 6.2. Limitations

When we get an integer with `get_int` function, it'll denied our input if it more than 2 billion, or less than minus 2 billion. That's because all the types have its limitations of memory.

In this case, the limitation of `int` is from -2^31^  to 2^31^ - 1 cause like on many computer systems, an `int` is 32 bits, which can only contain 2^32^ numbers(negative 2^31^ number, positive 2^31^ - 1 numbers and zero).

### 6.3. Truncation

Since each type has its limitation, does these limitations effect the mathematical operation?

If we divide an integer by another one, then save the result to a float number, what would happen? The answer is **truncation**, with the value after the decimal point lost. Even though `result` is a `double`, the value we're storing in it is already an integer.

```c
	int x = 5, y = 3;
	double result = x / y;
	// result = 1 rather than 1.666667
```

To fix this, we **cast**, or convert, out integers to floats before we divide them.

```c
float result = (float) x / (float) y; 
```

Then the result will be a float as we expect, actually we can cast only one of `x` or `y` and get a float as well.

## 7. Variables, syntactic suger

### 7.1. Variables

In C, we would write `type name = value;` to create a variable and give it some value. 

```c
int result = 3;
```

### 7.2. Syntactic suger

What is syntactic sugar is **shorthand expressions** for the **same** functionality.

E.g., we can increase the value of a variable with `result = result + 1;`, we also could equivalently say `result += 1`, we even could just write it as `result++`. We can learn this through looking at the documentation or other references online.

## 8. Conditions

We can use conditions in C, that is `if` , `else if`, `else` blocks, with:

```c
if (x < y){
  printf("x is less than y\n");
} else if (x > y) {
  printf("x is greater than y\n");
} else {
  printf("x is equal to y\n");
}
```

And we could notice that in C we use `{` and `}` (as well as indentation) to indicate how lines of code should be nested.

We use two vertical bar `||` to indicate a logical **or**, two ampersands `&&` to indicate a logical **and**. Then two equal signs `==` to compare two values whether it's equal.(Essentially a character is a value, that with two single quotes surrounding it)

## 9. Boolean expressions, loops

### 9.1. Boolean expressions

Boolean expressions is an expression with the value either `true` value or `false` value.

```c
int num1 = 10;
int num2 = 12;
// num1 == num2 is FALSE
```

Boolean expressions controls the loops keep running or not.

### 9.2. Loops

Loops requires a condition, and it will check the condition whether it's true, if it is, Loop will run once, and then check again.

## 10. Abstraction

We can reuse out designs, like abstract it to a function. That will make our code  more readable.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void){
  printf("meow\n");
  printf("meow\n");
  printf("meow\n");
  
  // or
  
  meow(3);
}
```

By using abstraction, we could concentrate on more high-level, and reduce repetition of codes.

## 11. Memory, imprecision, and overflow

### 11.1. Memory

Our computer has memory, in hardware chips called **RAM**, random-access memory. Our programs use RAM to store data while they're running, BUT that memory is **finite**.

### 11.2. Imprecision

Because RAM is finite, it will cause **imprecision:**

```c
#include <cs50.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void){
  float x = 1;
  float y = 10;
  printf("%.50f\n", x / y);
}
// result : 0.10000000149011611938476562500000000000000000000000
```

It turns out that is called **float-point imprecision**, where we don't have enough bits to store all possible values. With a finite number of bits for a `float`, we can't represent all possible real numbers (of which there are an infinite number of), so the computer has to **store the closest value** it can.

### 11.3. Overflow

If we only have three bits and need to count higher than seven (`111`), we add another bit to get eight, `1000`. But if we only have three bits available, we won't have a place for extra `1`. It will disappear and we will be back at `000`. This problem is called **integer overflow**, where an integer can only be so big before it runs out of bits.